# 2. Commands
This is an index of the commands.
(One can form a two-byte command by prefixing an instruction with a tilde (`~`).)

 * `\b` (hex 08) - prevents auto output.
 * `\t` (hex 09) - takes two arguments `x`, `y`; if `x` is defined, return x; otherwise, return `y`.
 * `\x0B` (hex 0B) - transpiles to `...`.
 * `\x10` (hex 10) - joins string by nothing.
 * `\x11` (hex 11) - returns:
   * `array`: `array.join("").split("")`.
   * `string`: `string.split("").join("")`. (Perhaps useless).
   * `number`: the number sorted.
 * `\f` (hex 12) - returns the min of two arguments.
 * `\r` (hex 13) - returns the max of two arguments.
 * ` ` - takes the next character `C` and another argument `A` and executes `A[C]` as [a function](https://github.com/ConorOBrien-Foxx/Jolf/blob/master/docs/Modules.md#prototype-module).
 * `!` - [`math`.js extension](https://github.com/ConorOBrien-Foxx/Jolf/blob/master/docs/Modules.md#mathjs-module).
 * `"` - begins string literal; writes characters to compiled code (surrounded by quotes) until another unescaped `"` is met. If a `'` is met, close the previous string and begin a new string. `%` acts as string interpolation, as such: `"Hello, %!"5 => "Hello, 5!"`
 * `#` - converts `a` to hexadecimal.
 * `$` - begin function literal; writes characters to compiled code as is, until another unescaped `$` is met
 * `%` - takes arguments `a` and `b`, and
   * `string, character` - removes all instances of `b` from `a`.
   * `array, anything` - removes all instances of `b` from `a`.
   * `number, number` - `a % b`.
 * `&` - takes the boolean conjunction of two arguments (`a && b`).
 * `'` - captures next character as a string.
 * `(` - [“`(` terminates the program and kills your computer”](http://chat.stackexchange.com/transcript/message/25961158#25961158)
 * `)` - transpiles to `){` (closes control structure).
 * `*` - multiplies 2 arguments
   * `number, number` - multiplies the two numbers
   * `string, number` (&) - repeats `string` `number` times
   * `array, number` - creates a 2D array of length `number` that contains `array` as all of its members
 * `+` - adds 2 arguments, according to their types:
   * `number, number` - adds the two numbers
   * `anything, string` or `string, anything` - returns `string` concatted with `anything` (preserving order)
   * `array, array` - concats the two arrays
   * `non array, array` - Puts `non array` at the beginning of `array`
   * `array, non array` - pushes `non array` to `array`
   * `set, set` - the set union of the two sets
 * `,` - misc. object:
   * `,a` - draws a box, given `w`idth, `h`eight, and `o`ptions, in a string, `abcd`, where `a` is the corner, `b` is the horizontal strut, `c` is the vertical strut, and `d` is the fill character.
   * `,b` - given an array, returns an array `[min,Q1,med,Q3,max]`.
   * `,B` - draws a box plot, given an array with `,b`.
   * `,d` - gives the bounding box of the string `a`.
   * `,r` - performs rot13 on string `a`.
   * `,R` - performs reverse rot13 on string `a`.
   * `,s` - performs rot`N` on string `a`.
   * `,S` - performs reverse rot`N` on string `a`.
 * `-` - subtracts 2 arguments, according to their types:
   * `number, number` - subtraction.
   * `string, array` - removes all objects in `array` from `string`.
   * `string, non-array` - converts the latter to a string and replaces all isntances of it in `string` with nothing, i.e. deletion.
   * `array, anything` - filters all instances of `anything` out of `array`.
   * `number, number` - subtraction
 * `.` - takes 2 arguments `O` and `p` and returns `O[p]`; if `O[p]` is undefined, returns `window[O][p]`; if _that_ is undefined, returns 42.
 * `/` - takes 2 arguments `A` and `B`:
   * `string, anything` - deletes `anything` in `string`.
   * `array, array` - set difference.
   * `array, number` - I really have no idea what I wrote.
   * `number, number` - division
 * digits `0-9` - that number.
 * `:` - begin character literal; writes the next character to compiled code as is. (NOTE: WILL BE CHANGED!!)
 * `;` - increases arity of current function by one.
 * `&lt;` - takes 2 arguments `A` and `B` and returns `A &lt; B` (JS behaviour).
 * `=` - takes 2 arguments `A` and `B` and returns `A == B`.
 * `&gt;` - takes 2 arguments `A` and `B` and returns `A > B` (JS behaviour).
 * `?` - ternary if, consumes 3 arguments `c`, `a`, and `b`. Roughly equivalent to `c?a:b`. (Warning: evaluates `a` and `b`. Be wary with use in recursive functions. To be fixed, soon.)
 * `@` - returns the character code of the next character in the source code.
 * `A` - takes 3 arguments `r`, `s`, and `t`; replaces each character in `s` found in `r` with the respective character found in `t`.
 * `B` - takes 1 argument `N` and converts it to binary as a string (equiv. `(N).toString(2)`).
 * `C` - takes 2 arguments `A` and `B` and parses the string `A` as an integer in base `B` (equiv. `parseInt(A,B)`).
 * `D` - begins a function declaration, beginning with `function(H,S,n){`.
 * `E` - the empty string `""`; is a variable.
 * `F` - returns the "first" property of 1 argument. Literally equivalent to `a[0]`.
 * `G` - split's `a` by `b`.
 * `H` - variable used in functions. Undefined to begin with.
 * `I` - takes input from input box, interpeted as a string.
 * `J` - takes input from input box, interpeted as a number.
 * `K` - comma-seperated array input.
 * `L` - RegExp expansion:
   * (to be explained)
 * `M` - increases arity of current function by 2
 * `N` - transiples to `return `.
 * `O` - takes the product of 1 argument, depending on its type:
   * `array` - takes the product of the array.
   * `number` - takes digit product of the number.
 * `P` - takes 1 argument `A` and returns `Number(A)` (converts all to number, if possible) (conversion an array into a number, as in `[1,2,3,1,0,2] => 123102`).
 * `Q` - squares 1 argument `S`, according to its type:
   * `number` - multiplies it by itself
   * `array` - takes the length of the array `N` and returns an array containing `N` copies of itself
   * `string` - appends string with itself (`abc => abcabc`).
 * `R` - join's `a` by `b`.
 * `S` - typically an argument to a predicate or function; initialized to a newline.
 * `T` - takes 2 arguments `F` and `s`; surrounds `F` expression (after compilation) with quotes and evaluates that action `F` every `s` milliseconds.=
 * `U` - takes the square root of the argument.
 * `V` - takes 1 argument `S` and is the value `V` of `S`; if `S` is a number, returns `S`'s parity.
 * `W` - `W`hile loop. Potentially buggy when nested.
 * `X` - JS eval something from input.
 * `Y` - the empty array `[]`; is a variable.
 * `Z` - array expansion:
   * (tba)
 * `[` - begins array literal, with entries seperated by commas
 * `\` - skips a character, sometimes.
 * `]` - ends array literal.
 * `^` - takes 2 arguments `A` and `B` and retursn `A^B` (exponentiation) (behaviour TBA)
 * `_` - negates 1 argument, according to its type:
   * `string` or `array` or `set` - reverses the entity
   * `number` - negates the entity
 * `` ` `` - forces an argument check
 * `a` - outputs (alerts/writes) 1 argument
 * `b` - takes an integer `N` and a base `b` and returns `(N).toString(b)`; when `b = 1`, this is equal to a string of length `N` filled with `#`s (TBR).
 * `c` - parses `a` as an integer in base `b`.
 * `d` - a predicate; roughly analogous to `(H,S,n)=>...`.
 * `e` - takes 1 argument `S` and evaluates it as a new Jolf program.
 * `f` - date expansion:
   * er
 * `g` - returns the "last" property of 1 argument. Literally equivalent to `a[a.length-1]`.
 * `h` - `h`eads argument `a`. (`a`+1)
 * `i` - takes input from input box, interpeted as a string.
 * `j` - takes input from input box, interpeted as a number.
 * `k` - comma-seperated array input.
 * `l` - length of `a`.
 * `m` - math expansion:
   * (tba)
 * `n` - variable, often used in predicates and functions; initialized to `0`.
 * `o` - takes next character and literally adds to the source code `char=`. Used for setting values.
 * `p` - takes 3 arguments `a`, `b`, and `s` and creates a range `[a,b)` with a step `s`.
 * `q` - the programs source code. (Buggy with `"` and newlines.)
 * `r` - takes 2 arguments `a` and `b` and creates a range `[a,b)` (inclusive of `a` and exclusive of `b`)
 * `s` - `r`, but with inclusive bounds.
 * `t` - value of ten. Non-writable.
 * `u` - takes 1 argument
   * `array` or `set` - returns the sum of the entity
   * `string` - behaviour TBA
   * `number` - takes the digit sum of the number (e.g. `u(140) = 1 + 4 + 0 = 5`)
 * `v` - takes 2 arguments `S` and `V`; sets the value of variable `S` to `V` and creates `S` if nonexistant (returns `V`)
 * `w` - decrements following `a`rgument. (`a-1`)
 * `x` - JS eval something from input.
 * `y` - canvas expansion:
   * (wait)
 * `z` - takes 1 argument and returns a range `[1,a]`.
 * `{` - begins golfy array. Closed by `#` (!)
 * `|` - ORs two arguments.
 * `}` - closes while (literally, `{`).
 * `]` - slice
 * `~` - more misc expansion:
   * `~#` - transpiles to `()` (to be deprecated). 
   * `~0` - Infinity (literally `0/1`)
   * `~1` - `100`.
   * `~2` - `1000`.
   * `~3` - `10000`.
   * `~4` - `100000`.
   * `~5` - `16`.
   * `~L` - levenshtein distance between two strings.
   * `~N` - writes `Number` to the compiled code (to be deprecated).
   * `~S` - writes `String` to the compiled code (to be deprecated).
   * `~T` - gets the hexadecimal of the charcode of the argument's first char.
   * `~P` - &varphi;, `(1+sqrt[5])/2`.
   * `~a` - writes `Array` to the compiled code (to be deprecated).
   * `~e` - Euler's number approx `2.718281828459045`.
   * `~i` - takes 1 argument and returns that argument (the identity function).
   * `~l` - creates a new `Levensthein` object.
   * `~o` - writes `prototype` to the compiled code (to be deprecated).
   * `~p` - &pi; approx `3.141592`.
   * `~s` - writes `Set` to the compiled code (to be deprecated).
   * `~w` - writes `window` to the compiled code (to be deprecated).
   * `~!` - boolean negation.
 * `\x7F` (hex 7F) - boolean negation.
 * `ς` - clears the output (lowercase ending sigma).
 * `θ` - increases the arity of the current function by three.
 * `η` - decreases the arity of the current function by one.
 * `Ʀ` - does something.
 * `λ` - takes the next "function" and uses it as an argument.
 * `¶`, `ᗰ`, `ᕓ`, `ᐻ`,`ᔛ`, `ᖒ`, `ራ`, and `ᒺ` all do stuff too.
 * `ν` - is `null` (lowercase nu).
 * `Χ` - pops one value off of `a` (uppercase Chi).
 * `χ` - shifts one value off of `a` (lowercase chi).
 * `Α` - checks if `a` is not a valid Jolf command (uppercase Alpha).
 * `φ` - `d`, but with two arguments. (lowercase phi).
 * `Ψ` - literally `(H,S,n)=>`. (uppercase Psi).
 * `Ω` - "super quote"; `Ω+34` would be the string whatever `+34` transpiles to (not necessarily what you see in the code preview).
 * `Ρ` - equiv. `a.replace(/b/,c)` i.e. single replace. (uppercase Rho).
 * `ρ` - equiv. `a.replace(/b/g,c)` i.e. global replcae. (lowercase rho).
 * `μ` - unique-ify input. (lowercase mu).
 * `σ` - sigma_`k`(`n`) function. (lowercase simga).
 * `ε` - JS eval (lowercase epsilon).
 * `ι` - provides the index of the token (hardcoded into the resulting code)
 * `β` - lambda generator
 * `©` - lambda math
 * `΅` - lambda string
 * `Ξ` - decompressions entity
 * `\x82` - binary manhattan addition (e.g. 1 +m 5 = 15)
 * `\x83` - ternary manhattan addition (e.g. 3 +m 5 +m 2 = 352)
 * 
